DZoneOver 2 million developers have joined DZone. Log In / Join  
RefcardsTrend Reports
Events
For Java apps, containerization helps solve the majority of challenges related to portability and consistency. See how.

Read Our 400th Refcard
Far too many vulnerabilities have been introduced into software products. Don't treat your supply chain security as an afterthought.

Read the Refcard
The dawn of observability across the SDLC has fully disrupted standard performance monitoring and management practices. See why.

Download the Free Trend Report
Platform Engineering: Enhance the developer experience, establish secure environments, automate self-service tools, and streamline workflows

Read the Refcard
Related
Mastering Git
Terraform Best Practices: The 24 Practices You Should Adopt
How To Use Git Cherry-Pick to Apply Selected Commits
Top 20 Git Commands With Examples


Trending
How to Test PUT Requests for API Testing With Playwright Java
Managing Orphaned Users in SQL Server: A Comprehensive Guide
Zero Trust for AI: Building Security from the Ground Up
Redefining Ethical Web Scraping in the Wake of the Generative AI Boom
DZone Testing, Deployment, and Maintenance Deployment Top 20 Git Commands With Examples
Top 20 Git Commands With Examples
Now that you (presumably) know what Git is and how it works, take a look at examples of how to use the top 20 Git commands.
By Sahiti Kappagantula user avatar Sahiti Kappagantula  · Updated Jun. 21, 22 · Tutorial
 Likes (114)
 Comment (8)
 Save
 Tweet
 Share
 2.5M Views
Join the DZone community and get the full member experience. Join For Free

In the previous blog, you got an understanding of what git is. In this blog, I will talk about the Top 20 Git Commands that you will be using frequently while you are working with Git.

Here are the Git commands which are being covered:

git config
git init
git clone
git add
git commit
git diff
git reset
git status
git rm
git log
git show
git tag
git branch
git checkout
git merge
git remote
git push
git pull
git stash
So, let's get started!

Related: Gitlab CI/CD Tutorial.

Git Commands
git config
Usage: git config –global user.name “[name]”  

Usage: git config –global user.email “[email address]”  

This command sets the author name and email address respectively to be used with your commits.

Git Config Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git init
Usage: git init [repository name]

 

This command is used to start a new repository.

GitInit Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git clone
Usage: git clone [url]  

This command is used to obtain a repository from an existing URL.

Git Clone Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git add
Usage: git add [file]  

This command adds a file to the staging area.

Git Add Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git add *  

This command adds one or more to the staging area.

Git Add Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git commit
Usage: git commit -m “[ Type in the commit message]”  

This command records or snapshots the file permanently in the version history.

Git Commit Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git commit -a  

This command commits any files you’ve added with the git add command and also commits any files you’ve changed since then.

Git Commit Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git diff
Usage: git diff  

This command shows the file differences which are not yet staged.

Git Diff Command - Git Commands - Edureka

 Usage: git diff –staged 

This command shows the differences between the files in the staging area and the latest version present.

Git Diff Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git diff [first branch] [second branch]  

This command shows the differences between the two branches mentioned.

Git Diff Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git reset
Usage: git reset [file]  

This command unstages the file, but it preserves the file contents.

Git Reset Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git reset [commit]  

This command undoes all the commits after the specified commit and preserves the changes locally.

Git Reset Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git reset –hard [commit]  This command discards all history and goes back to the specified commit.

Git Reset Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Learn how to connect Git secrets with a Jenkins pipeline.

git status
Usage: git status  

This command lists all the files that have to be committed.

Git Status Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git rm
Usage: git rm [file]  

This command deletes the file from your working directory and stages the deletion.

Git Rm Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git log
Usage: git log  

This command is used to list the version history for the current branch.

Git Log Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git log –follow[file]  

This command lists version history for a file, including the renaming of files also.

Git Log Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git show
Usage: git show [commit]  

This command shows the metadata and content changes of the specified commit.

Git Show Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git tag
Usage: git tag [commitID]  

This command is used to give tags to the specified commit.

Git Tag Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git branch
Usage: git branch  

This command lists all the local branches in the current repository.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git branch [branch name]  

This command creates a new branch.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git branch -d [branch name]  

This command deletes the feature branch.

Git Branch Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git checkout
Usage: git checkout [branch name]  

This command is used to switch from one branch to another.

Git Checkout Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git checkout -b [branch name]  

This command creates a new branch and also switches to it.

Git Checkout Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git merge
Usage: git merge [branch name]  

This command merges the specified branch’s history into the current branch.

Git Merge Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git remote
Usage: git remote add [variable name] [Remote Server Link]  

This command is used to connect your local repository to the remote server.

Git Remote Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git push
Usage: git push [variable name] master  

This command sends the committed changes of master branch to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push [variable name] [branch]  

This command sends the branch commits to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push –all [variable name]  

This command pushes all branches to your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git push [variable name] :[branch name]  

This command deletes a branch on your remote repository.

Git Push Command - Git Commands - Edureka

git pull
Usage: git pull [Repository Link]  

This command fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.

Git Pull Command - Git Commands - Edureka
Related Guide: Jenkins VS Gitlab

git stash
Usage: git stash save  

This command temporarily stores all the modified tracked files.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash pop  

This command restores the most recently stashed files.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash list  

This command lists all stashed changesets.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

Usage: git stash drop  

This command discards the most recently stashed changeset.

Git Stash Command - Git Commands - Edureka

DZone’s previously covered how to automate deployments for Mule 4 applications with Gitlab. Want to learn more about git commands? Here’s a guide to using Git and GitHub to get you started. Alternatively, you can take a top-down approach and start with this DevOps Tutorial.

Git
Command (computing)
Opinions expressed by DZone contributors are their own.

Partner Resources
ABOUT US

About DZone
Support and feedback
Community research
Sitemap
ADVERTISE

Advertise with DZone
CONTRIBUTE ON DZONE

Article Submission Guidelines
Become a Contributor
Core Program
Visit the Writers' Zone
LEGAL

Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
CONTACT US

3343 Perimeter Hill Drive
Suite 100
Nashville, TN 37211
support@dzone.com
Let's be friends:   
